Next, the second verse of the Dhammapada, the
death of King Paschal, will relate
to our practice of assisting and supporting the dying. Do
we often participate in this practice? Yes, of course. If we
are Buddhists, not participating in this practice is not true
Buddhism. Not helping
our fellow practitioners, their parents,
or anyone else when they die is
not true Buddhism, but rather extending
compassion, right? It's not that we don't practice
Buddhism while alive and
rely on our Dharma teacher when they die, right? We need
our fellow practitioners to help. Because
we're not even sure we'll be good. It's
possible that at the moment of death,
we might cling to something, but when
we see our fellow practitioners,
we naturally let go of that clinging.
That's the benefit of practicing in a Dharma
center. Fellow practitioners, do you see that?
For example, if you're angry with your husband or children,
but you see your fellow practitioners, the anger lessens.
So, when you
die, if you have a negative thought,
seeing your fellow practitioners makes it lessen. And if
you listen to a
sutra, your mind...  We should also leave that place and
return to the Buddhist scriptures, right?
Then we'll listen to a Dharma talk, so it's
very important for us to offer
prayers for those who are about to pass away. The next part of the story is about the
mother of the Persian king who died
long ago. The Buddha was preaching at the Shravasti monastery in
Shravasti to the gods, humans, and dragons.
At that time, the mother of the Persian king,
over 90 years old, suddenly fell seriously ill. Because she didn't receive the
right doctor or medicine, she passed away. The king
and his followers performed the funeral rites according to the law, then
took her to the burial site. After the funeral, everyone
returned and stopped by the Buddha's place. At that time, the king, dressed in coarse
clothes and wearing worn-out shoes, came to pay his respects
at the Buddha's feet. The Buddha invited the
king to sit down and asked him where he came from, his
clothes were coarse and shabby, and his face was haggard. Why had he come to this?
The king paid his respects and replied that the queen mother
of the country, over 90 years old, had fallen seriously
ill and had just passed away. He had brought her coffin to the
grave and returned, stopping by here to visit the Buddha.
The Buddha told the king that from ancient times to the present,
there are four things that are most frightening: being born
weak and frail, illness causing the body to wither and death, and the consciousness to
depart.  And separation from loved
ones, all things are impermanent, cannot last long, and there is no promise. Each day
passes, life diminishes like the water of five rivers
flowing endlessly, human life is
fleeting, just like that. Then the
Buddha recited a verse: "Like the flowing river, quickly
drifting away, human life is
like that, once gone, it never returns."
The Buddha said to the king, "Everything in
the world is like that, nothing lasts forever,
everyone must die, no one can
escape this truth. The Buddha, the true sages, the five-
supernatural beings, the king, all know this. There has never been such a thing. The
king should not grieve
unnecessarily, it is harmful to himself. As a child,
love your parents too much. When they pass away, you must do good
deeds, cultivate merit, and dedicate it to your
parents, like preparing food to send to your
relatives." After hearing the Buddha's teachings, the
king and his ministers were all joyful,
no longer worried or sad. Those who came to hear the
Dharma all saw the path. Because this lesson
only fully conveys its meaning after the end, I will
read the whole
lesson. We are Buddhists,
yet we will experience separation
from our families. Aren't we sad? Very
sad indeed.  Separation is truly
sad, even if siblings are at odds with each
other, sometimes even to the point of not speaking to
each other. But when one dies,
does the other rejoice?
Never, it's always
very sad. Even close friends, no matter how
angry they are with each other—and I'm
talking about family ties, if something happens and they're
very angry, then when
one dies, the other is still deeply saddened. I
've experienced this before, when my
older sister passed away. It was so heartbreaking. My
sisters are married now, each living in their own
home, but it's so painful to
lose a loved one. It's a profound
emptiness, even though my
sisters and I may be working far away and only
see each other after a long time. The
same goes for parents. I live far from my parents, but
knowing they're still alive gives me peace of
mind. Maybe I won't go home for months, but when they
call, I'll say I'm
busy. Sometimes I'm thoughtless and don't
call my parents for months.  But my heart
remains peaceful and full, you see? Still
peaceful, but suddenly losing something leaves
me feeling empty, like I've lost a
support system, lost something. Truly,
no words can describe it,
only that it's a feeling of emptiness and
desolation. Even though I don't need money, I don't need
comforting words, I don't need them,
right? That's
enough for me, my parents. They've taught
me everything. Sometimes, my parents are just
sick and lying there, but then they
die. Even after they're gone, I still feel so empty, so very empty. So,
how should we react
to the death of a loved one?
I know that my parents will eventually
die, so right now I must create
good karma to dedicate to them.
From now on, young people, do you agree?
You're young, you're still
youth. But whatever you do,
remember to direct this merit to
your parents. Then, when your parents
pass away, it will be up to you.  "I also have a complete
heart for my parents, and I don't feel any
sense of unease. That is, whatever needed to be
done, I've done, so there's no feeling of
unease." Yen told the audience that from
the death of her older sister, before
Yen knew about Buddhism, and then the death
of her parents, these two deaths had
completely different effects on her state of mind. With the
death of her parents, Yen felt completely
content because whatever she did, she
dedicated the merit to
her parents. As a result, her parents came to know
Buddhism and recited the
Bodhisattva Aspirations, so she felt content.
Contentment comes from knowing that if
her parents are reborn in the next life, they will be happier than in this life.
Knowing that her parents will go from a
bad place to a better one, would
n't she be happy? Because before, she
didn't know about Buddhism, she didn't
dedicate merit, she didn't focus on
benefiting her parents. When people die,
you don't know where they go, so
you feel unease. Not knowing
where they go makes you feel unease.
But I know for sure that they are going to a
better place in this life, so I'm not
worried, I'm happy. So, Yen has three
parents, all three of whom, before they died,
developed the Bodhi Mind. They developed the Bodhi Mind themselves, meaning they became
proficient in developing the
Bodhi Mind. It was very joyful and they often repented
before death. The Buddhist followers
nearby chanted scriptures and
urged her to repent every day. So, she automatically
repented, meaning she obtained the Buddha's teachings. That
means shame and remorse, having a remorseful heart, feeling ashamed
of the mistakes she had made before. When
she thought about doing
evil or bad things, she felt ashamed, ashamed of her past mistakes
and ashamed of the new actions. If she
thought about doing something like this,
she thought, "This person will laugh at me,
this person will criticize me, this is not the
Dharma, this is wrong," and she felt ashamed, meaning she
didn't dare do it.
That means she had remorse, thinking about the past and feeling
ashamed, thinking about the new and not daring to
do it. Because she would feel ashamed, you know,
because she had  When you practice with
your parents in mind, you benefit, and you
know that your parents and
loved ones also
benefit. So when you have a
sick sibling, you often call
Yen and ask, "Sister, are you sick? Are you about to die?
What should you do?" Just go to their side. Remember, that's how
they are when they're alive. When they're near
death, everyone hopes for blessings. Everyone accepts that
even if they find a
piece of wood while drowning, they'll still cling to it.
While alive, they may seem to follow this or
that religion, but in reality, all
beings follow the law of karma;
no one can escape it. So,
before death, I respectfully offer this to the
Buddha: "Today I offer this to my
sister. When she dies, she leaves this physical body and
immediately receives this blessing. At that moment,
will she immediately seize this blessing?
Of course, no one will refuse it. They may
seem to follow this or that religion, but
all religions make people think someone will
save them, but at that moment, they are all alone."
No one saves us. There's no one to save us. When we're
alive, we think of angels
somewhere saving us, but in reality, no one saves us.
If they could save us through life and death, they would
have saved us from our difficulties
first. If they can't save us from small difficulties,
how can they save us from big problems? Do you
see that? We
think, "I follow this," for
example, "God's morality," and we think
God will save us. But if they
can't even save us from small things like money and food,
how can they save us from
big problems like life and death? That's
why we say that Buddha saves
sentient beings because Buddha bestows his teachings upon them.
That's called salvation. Those who
don't practice won't get
anything. Do you see that? If
you don't practice Buddha's teachings, you won't get anything. If you don't give alms and offerings, where will your
merit come from?
Do you see that if you don't
use your heart to joyfully forgive
others, where will others
forgive you, where will others be joyful towards
you? That's Buddha.  Only the teachings save us,
but we are the ones who practice them.
So when following any
religion,
we think that God will save us, but when we don't
see salvation, who will throw us a pile of
merit from people's offerings, almsgiving, and good deeds? Would we grab it
immediately? Of course we would!
For example, let's say
we slip and fall,
but we think that suddenly
a rope will descend from heaven to
save us. But if we don't
see it in heaven, who will release it for us? Even if it's just
a thin thread, when we
see it, we'll grab it without fear of getting
poisoned. We'll grab it! So,
merit allows people to
move from one realm to another. At
that time, we, the congregation, offer prayers and
offerings. When a loved one is
about to die or something like that, you offer prayers. And when
someone is sick,
you go and encourage them, saying, "
Sir, consider this as an act of
charity."  "Offering 1000... Oh, just
1000." Even telling the public,
Yen approached her father with Buddhist teachings in a
very simple way.
That is, Yen said, "Dad, every day, on the 15th and
1st of the lunar month, you set up an offering
for our ancestors, 5000. After the offering,
when I come back, I'll take it back to the temple to offer
to our ancestors." Her father said, "5000 is nothing.
I'll offer
10,000!" Then, the next time Yen came back,
she saw the offerings,
1000 and 2000. She said, "Okay, now I'll
put 1000 and 2000 on the incense stand every day." "
That's already over 10,000, isn't it? It's definitely over! And so,
naturally, Yen sowed the karmic seed of
merit for her father by exceeding the offering. Therefore,
whatever she promised in the next life, she can rest assured that
whatever she planned will be exceeded.
This happened many times. This is because she mastered the
Dharma, because she mastered
this Dharma, which is preparing for her father.  When Mom
went out, it was Yen Bao who gave it to Dad, and
as for Mom, Yen will tell
everyone about it. From the beginning, Yen told
everyone that they should encourage Grandma on the mountain.
Grandma was reluctant to go. So Yen told her sisters, "Let's
not. You sisters help me invite Mom to go." So they
invited her once, but we know Grandma
Ha is very stingy from way back. She never spends
anything wastefully. A set of clothes might be
bought, but after 5 years it's still new, so she just keeps it
in the closet. She's thrifty, only wearing socks and
skirts. The same goes for food.
So she doesn't buy anything for herself.
So she just keeps it all. Then Yen said to Mom
An, "Okay, let's make a small offering today." "Yes, Mom," she
said. So in the end, before
Grandma got sick, she
gave all her money to Huong, a Buddhist follower of the temple, to
keep. Then when she
died, every penny went to the
Three Jewels. Whatever money people gave belonged
to the Three Jewels, Grandma didn't take anything, right? It's
just the kindness of
everyone that made that money belong to the Three
Jewels.  It's like people are making offerings,
not taking a single penny. That's the benefit,
but she has such a generous heart.
Yen's father also sees that Yen is doing
good deeds, and whatever money she has, she
sends to her granddaughter Mai. She doesn't send it to
anyone else, she sends it all to Mai.
Mai can make whatever offerings she wants. So, when
we get along well,
our parents become closer
to the Buddhist followers, they love and
trust the Buddhist followers, knowing that the Buddhist followers are just
givers. That's why I do
n't send money to my children anymore. Yen
never keeps money for others, and she doesn't play with words like "
money," so she doesn't send it to those other children who
don't know much about Buddhism yet. She
sends it to the Buddhist followers because she's known many times that the
Buddhist followers only make offerings on her
behalf, and they give everything they have. She
eats
vegetarian food, you see? How much does she eat in a day?
I don't know, maybe 15,000 dong a day, maybe not even that
much, just rice and vegetables. So, the benefit
is when you do something.  I also
pray and do good deeds, always
thinking of my parents.
Many of you here, how can I expect
my parents not to understand Buddhist teachings?
Remember, this cup of merit is
almost empty, nothing left. If we work hard, we'll only get
this much, right? Just
a drop at a time, and
it will take a long time to fill up. Yet, after only
a few days of practicing Buddhism, you come back and demand to teach your parents
all sorts of things, without even giving up what you had
when you were still at home. You should have made offerings
to dedicate the merit to your parents. You should have
done this before you stopped working. Every little bit of
merit you accumulated, you should have thought of
your parents and dedicated it to them. And yet, they only received it when they were near death.
From now on, are you impatient? When you practice Buddhism,
don't just come back and
demand to teach others. You must have practiced and given alms.
People should scold
you, but you should think of
your parents and be patient to dedicate that merit to them. You
must be persistent.
My body is tired and needs rest, but
then I think of my parents, and I get involved
because I want to transform them.
I think
that my parents have
very heavy karma. I feel that my family has
very heavy karma, so I keep thinking
about that karma. I have to get involved, I do
n't complain. Because I still have
benefits for myself and I still have love
for so many people—my mother, my sister, my child, my
husband, etc. So I
get involved in the practice with everyone, but the
benefits are also something I have to worry about in
this present life. I'm not being
irresponsible in this life. But the
responsibility I have is a
silent responsibility, right? Therefore,
I have to accumulate merit, as the
Buddhist scriptures teach. As a
filial child, you
must know how to do good deeds and create
merit to dedicate to your parents, like preparing
food to send to loved ones when they are far away. Do
you all see how good this is?
So, you go and assist the
dying person; your task is...
Above all, you must teach people to be filial. Tell them that they should recite scriptures
daily and
make offerings, dedicating the merit
to the deceased, the sick, etc. They can
donate as
much as they wish, but you must teach
them how to make offerings
to their loved ones so they can be filial and
have merit. Don't just tell them to recite scriptures, make offerings,
observe precepts, and listen to Dharma teachings. That means telling
them to do their utmost to
dedicate the merit to their parents. So, as Yen Yen
often guides, you should go to the
temple's YouTube page or my
page. Every time you open a
Dharma lecture, listen and dedicate the merit to
what you desire. That's how you
accumulate merit. You have to
dedicate the merit diligently.
Don't let time be idle. If you have
idle time, you won't accumulate merit.
You have to be diligent,
everyone! In this lesson, the
first thing is to help
your parents with their prayers. If you still have parents, start helping them
now. That means you have to
create merit for your parents right now.  My
relatives are all under my care and support. As
for impermanence, when impermanence befalls
someone else, if I
fulfill my responsibilities, I will not be free from
suffering. I will not suffer if I fulfill my responsibilities
to those
I am responsible for—my
parents, my spouse, my children. I will diligently practice giving alms,
I will
diligently cultivate myself, and I will dedicate
the merit to that cause. Then I will always
feel that I have no faults, and
without faults, I will not be
confused or suffer agonizingly
like this Persian king.
Now, Yen will ask again, "
What should I do for my
parents and relatives right now?" The answer is, "
Accumulate merit, see? Accumulate merit and dedicate it
to your parents and relatives so that when
impermanence comes to them, they will benefit, and
I will not be free from suffering. If I keep thinking
about my relatives, then when
impermanence comes, I will have the opportunity to
enlighten them. Then I will go and do my
duty. If I encounter sick people,
I will tell them to take refuge in the Three Jewels and
rely on the Three Jewels."  Tell them to give them blessings, tell
them to know how to give alms and offerings so they can receive
blessings. That's what we mean by going to assist in chanting,
okay? It's not about just
saying, "Just chant the sutras, no
need to make offerings." "No need to do anything,
just chant the sutras." That's not right.
Many people just come and keep chanting "Amitabha
Buddha, Amitabha Buddha, Amitabha Buddha," without telling
me to practice the Dharma at all. Then they
say I'll be
reborn in the Pure Land. That's their practice, they're being hindered by their teacher's orders,
understand? It's not
[music],
okay?